.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This manual is for CRYWrap
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 Gergely Nagy <algernon@@bonehunter.rulez.org>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
.\" manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
.\" versions, except that this permission notice may be stated in a
.\" translation approved by the Author.
.TH CRYWRAP 8 "03 May 2003" "CryWrap" "CryWrap"
.SH "NAME"
CryWrap \- Simple TCP/IP service encryption using TLS/SSL
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BI "crywrap \-\-listen " HOST / PORT " \-\-destination " HOST / PORT
.BI [ options ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B CryWrap
is a simple wrapper that waits for TLS/SSL connections, and proxies
them to an unencrypted location.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.B CryWrap
takes the following options:
.SS "Required options"
.TP
.BI "\-\-destionation (\-d) " HOST / PORT
The destionation host and address, where CryWrap should connect
to. Both arguments are required.
.SS "TLS options"
.TP
.B \-\-anon (\-a)
Enables Anon-DH mode. If enabled, no certificate will be sent to the
client, and only anonymous sessions will be enabled.
.br
Default is \fBoff\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-\-cert (\-c) " PATH
.TP
.BI "\-\-key (\-k) " PATH
.br
The public certificate to send to clients, and the private server key.
.br
Default is \fB/etc/crywrap/server.pem\fR, unless \fB--anon\fR is also
specified, in which case no certificate will be used.
.BI "\-\-ca (\-z) " PATH
.br
A Certificate Authority certificate to be used for verification of client certificates.
.TP
.BI "\-\-verify (\-v) [" LEVEL ]
Set the level of client certificate verification. Level one simply
logs the result, level two and above abort if the certificate could
not be verified.
.br
Default is \fB0\fR.
.SS "Miscellaneous options"
.TP
.B \-\-inetd (\-i)
Enable inetd-mode. Use this if you want to run CryWrap from inetd. If
this option is not enabled, then \fB\-\-listen\fR is a required
option.
.br
Default is \fBoff\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-\-listen (\-l) " HOST / PORT
The host and port CryWrap should listen on. \fIHOST\fR can be an IPv4
or IPv6 address, or a hostname, and is optional \- if unspecified,
CryWrap will listen on all available addresses. \fIPORT\fR is
mandatory.
.br
This option is required, unless CryWrap was put into inetd mode.
.TP
.BI "\-\-pidfile (\-P) " PIDFILE
Write the pid thy runs with to
.IR PIDFILE .
.br
Default is
.BR /var/run/crywrap.pid .
.TP
.BI "\-\-user (\-u) " UID
.I UID
is the numerical user id of the user thy should run as.
.br
Default is
.BR 65534 .
.TP
.B \-\-version (\-V)
Print the version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help (\-?)
Print a verbose help screen and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-usage
Print a short summary of options.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.SS "Setting up pop3s"
.nf
crywrap \-\-listen /995 \-\-destination localhost/110
.fi
.SS "Setting up imaps with a different certificate"
.nf
crywrap \-\-listen /993 \-\-destination localhost/143 \\
	\-\-pem /etc/ssl/certs/imap.pem
.fi
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/crywrap/
.RS
This directory contains the default server key and certificate.
.RE
.SH "BUGS"
Probably many.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Gergely Nagy <algernon@bonehunter.rulez.org>
